There's another important part of the
performance API that we should talk about.
And this is how we get the web
vital information specifically.
And that's called
the performance observer.
And so a way to observe different
performance events that might not happen
at known points in time.
Like the purport like the navigation
entry might a navigation entry,
we always know that by
the time the load event fires,
we have all the information in that
entry that we would ever need.
But different web vitals might
not happen until the end.
We might not know what our web vital
score is, until 30 seconds into the page.
And so we need a different
paradigm to get that information.
And that's where performance
observer comes in.
When we create a performance observer,
we tell it to look for a specific thing.
Tell me about paint events,
tell me about layout shift events.
And whenever those sorts of events happen,
we can capture that and
get that information programmatically.
Unfortunately, in somebody's infinite
wisdom, these things are also called
entries just like the other thing,
but it's a different object entirely.
They're not related at all,
they're totally different shapes,
just a different kind of entry.
So extra confusing for all of us.
But something to keep in mind is that the
performance timings is one kind of entry,
and the performance observer
is a different kind of entry.
So, let's take a look at this.
So we're gonna do two things.
We're gonna run a lighthouse report on our
site, so that we get a baseline of how
does our site perform right now,
according to lighthouse.
And then we're gonna walk through, I'm not
gonna ask you to build it on your own.
We're gonna walk through some code
together and implemented on the site.
To capture real field data from our
site so that we can pull it together.
So, we're gonna code together.
So, if you're ready, open up your IDE
of choice and have a look at some code.
So in the public folder under assets,
j s utility,
there's a couple of files
in there that I brought
in from other projects
that we're going to use.
The first is perf j s.
Perf j s is our field
data performance agent.
This is the thing that's actually gonna
capture field data from our webpage and
bring it back.
And it's gonna do that by into by
interacting with that performance API
programmatically.
So how does this work?
At the top of it is an incantation
that you might have seen before.
This is document ready.
We're gonna wait until
everything is done and
the document is ready
before we do anything.
This is the equivalent of jQuery
dot ready if you don't use jQuery.
This is just raw JavaScript that
just works in all browsers.
And is free.
And I copy and paste this around a lot.
Once we're actually ready to do some
stuff, we're gonna capture perf data.
And so we create a payload of all the
different things that we're gonna measure.
We wanna know what the URL of the pages
because as the user navigates around,
there might be the Index page or
the pricing page or
the features page or whatever.
And I need to know what page are we
capturing performance data from.
And then I want to get
a bunch of different metrics.
From the old world of performance.
I want to capture DOM content loaded,
of when did the initial document
finish when was the load event?
This information is still valuable and
still relevant,
just in a different way
than the web vitals.
And then I wanna capture each of the four
web vitals that we've talked about.
First contentful paint, largest contentful
paint, communitive layout shifts.
And for simpler delay, and to do this,
we're gonna need to create some
performance observers to say I want to
listen for certain kinds of events.
And so the first one we're gonna create
is the first contentful paint observer.
So we are gonna create a performance
observer let's just collapse those and,
we're gonna create a performance observer,
that when,
it goes off, it's gonna call our function.
And it's gonna observe our document for
paint events and
pass in the buffered property or
the buffered option.
What buffered means is that,
hey, because we're waiting for
a document to be ready before we're
creating any or any of our observers,
some of these events might
have already happened.
By saying buffered,
it means I want them I'll give me
the events even if they already happened.
I can get historical events
will be passed into me as well.
And whenever that happens, I want you to
call my function, my handle FCP function.
There's a little bit of ceremony that
seems to be necessary with this API,
where the list of entries you
get isn't actually the entries.
It's like an odd envelope for the entries.
So you call entry list get entries,
which sometimes doesn't return an array.
So you have to like default it.
In my opinion, this is a bunch of like
ceremony that is totally unnecessary, but
that's what the API demands.
So for that, you'll get an array, an array
of objects pate entries that have come in.
And for each page entry, we need to
look at them because not all paint
entries are the first contentful paint
entry will get a paint entry for
every time that there
might be a paint of it.
So we'll have to look to see hey,
the entry that we get is it called first
contentful paint which is specifically
the metric we care about and
if it is, we're just gonna capture the.
So what was the start time of
the first contentful paint?
And for our own ease of use, we'll
write it out to the console as well, so
that we can interact are other observers
are gonna look a little bit similar.
But each of the web vitals
has its own quirks.
Of course, nothing is just,
hey, here's an obvious API that
does what you think it does.
And you don't need to think about.
Nope, they're all a little weird.
So for example, we just went through
the first contentful paint clearly largest
contentful paint would be the same thing,
just a slightly different thing, no.
No, it's a totally different
event we're gonna listen to.
We're not gonna listen to paint events,
we're gonna listen specifically to
a largest contentful paint event because
it's different, but it is what it is.
Inside the ceremony is exactly the same.
We unwrap unwrap the envelope
of entries loop over them.
And unfortunately this will go off
multiple times every time there is
a paint event and
it is the been the largest one to date.
Like so far in the process.
The contentful paint event
will go off again so,
this is gonna go off again and again.
And so, what we need to do is we need to
measure, is the start time of the event
that we just got bigger than
what we've captured before?
And if it is as we update it,
because the first contentful paint,
by definition will also be the largest
contentful paint when it happens, and then
every subsequent paint will be measured
if it is bigger than the one before.
Can we also have layout shifts?
Is not a paint event.
It's a little different.
It is a layout shift, remember.
This is when the page is pushing around.
So any time elements are shifted on
the page, we are gonna listen for
a layout shift event.
And it'll call our handler after
unwrapping the same package,
we have to look at
a couple of things here.
First, we need to check to make
sure that this wasn't expected.
And what do I mean by expected?
I mean, there's lots of patterns
on the web where you might
have a drop down menu and
expander acts like maximize video.
Thinks that the user just clicked
a button and something got bigger and
the elements around it shifted.
Well clearly that's expected,
that's what we want.
And we wouldn't want that to
count against our score, so
we're gonna get a layout shift
event anytime it happens.
But if there was a click event and
the immediate event loop preceding
this layout shift It'll be flagged and
we don't want to capture that.
It's not part of our
cumulative layout shift score.
But aside from that we have
to add this up ourselves.
So every time there's a layout shift,
we just add it to the previous
add it to the pile.
We're adding them all together and
the total score will be the.
Now this can happen again through
the entire lifetime of the document.
So as a document changes, this is gonna
keep going off and getting bigger and
bigger.
The last of the web vitals
is first input delay,
which will create yet
another performance observer for
this is gonna listen for
the first input event.
And we're gonna unwrap the entry.
Now, rather than just getting
a single metric this time,
we have to do a little
bit of math ourselves.
Because the data that it tells us is
when did I start first calling events?
Calling events in response to
this click event versus when did
the click event actually happen?
That's the delay between when
the click event happened.
And we're able to process our
first event handler based on it.
So we do that math and provide it.
Now this is only gonna happen if there's
a click if the user hits the page then
leaves the page.
There's no 1st input.
They never did anything.
So with all 4 of these listeners going,
we're gonna be capturing the data.
How do we get it back to our server?
Well, because these things can happen
at any point during the lifecycle of
the page.
You don't necessarily know when you're
done when you have the data that you need.
And so the only real way to get that
data back to yourself reliably with
the correct values is to wait for
the page to be done, to be unloaded.
The user is leaving so
we can listen to the unload event.
Now, if you've ever tried to listen to
the unload event, you didn't know that it.
You can't do very much, you can't like
fire off a fetch request there and
have any reliability
that you're gonna get it.
But you can do other things.
For example, you can send
a beacon a begin is a very small
payload that you can say
after this page is done.
Post this after the API,
I don't want to know anything about it.
I can't really even configure it.
I can't tell you it's Jason.
I'm gonna fire the string up, report and
pray that he lives in the right place so
we're gonna fire off our
payload to this beacon API.
There's a couple other bits of
data that we hadn't captured yet
that we can pull off the performance API.
So we're gonna get a particular entry,
the navigation entry.
So the one that we looked at.
Now we're gonna pull two
particular values off of it,
which is the DOM content loaded and
the load event.
So we can get these
historical bits of data.
So this is a very simple
performance agent.
Now, some of you might be wondering,
hey, why do I need to write all of this?
Like this seems like a lot
of really low level stuff.
And it is, but
you should know how it works.
There's a library that does most of
this stuff, or yeah, most of it and
in a little bit more bulletproof ways,
and it's available from Google.
It's called web vitals,
you can pull it in.
It's a little bit bigger than this,
but it's more production ready.
Alternatively, if you use a service for
this, they'll provide you an agent that
they would use for their data scheme as
well, like request metrics as our own
agent that does stuff very similar to
this inside of our inside of our code.
But for the purpose of our workshop today,
we have our own custom
partisinal home grown agents.
So we just need to add this to our page,
and we should start capturing data.
So pop open the index of our document, and
we just need to load this
script like any other.
So we're gonna scroll down until we start
finding the other script tags on the page,
scople here.
And let's just add it.
So I'm gonna copy this one and
I'm gonna load
it first, and it's in j s/util /perf.
And I'm gonna save that.
Now if I go back to our page here, and
reload it you'll see in
the console of dev tools,
all of our data got fired off.
So it recorded the FCP as 713 and
then recorded an LCP the largest
contentful page has also 713, but
then there was another paint that was
bigger and so that recorded again at 925.
That's why we need to
continually rewrite this.
Now you'll see a lot of CLS.
This has a lot of different layout
shifts happening over time.
And if we go to the page and
scroll down, we might even see more CLS
is fire as different parts of
the page might render asynchronously.
If we eventually click on the page.
We'll see the first input delay, which by
this time, everything should be done and
there won't be any delay.
But at whatever point the user actually
clicks on it, we will record this.
Right now all of this data is still in
our browser, we need to get it back
to the server, which is happening as
a beacon as part of unloading the page.
So if we go back to request metrics and
reload the page,
that beacon should have gone off and
fired to our server.
How do you know that that happens?
If you go to the Network tab,
and we look for
slash API which is where it was firing
it off, we don't see it in here.
Like here's a couple of fonts
that have API in them, but
we don't see our actual
beacon requests going off.
And that's because beacons are kind
of tied in with the previous page.
So it happened as part of
closing the previous page and
disappear there's some tricks in
Chrome tools to like see them, but
you never get all
the information about them.
So it's much easier to understand
them from the server side.
If we take a look at your,
your running server wherever you're
running the console,
you might see some new lines got printed.
Our server will report every time it gets,
a performance payload.
It's just printing out,
hey, here's all the values.
And what we'll play with later is actually
analyzing these values because they're
being written into
a directory called logs.
Perf dot log dot CSV.
And so every time that beacon
has gone off on your page,
it's just writing a new row into this.
Here's another piece of field data.
And so here we are now starting
to capture data from our site.
There's one other thing we should do
before we move back to our slides.
And that's,
we should capture a bit of lab data so
that we can start measuring the changes
that we're gonna make to our site,
and how it affects both lab data and
field data.
So going to our request metric sites,
and opening up chrome tools,
I just want you to go to lighthouse.
With clear storage, simulated throttling
performance desktop and generate a report.
It's really bad.
Really really bad.
It's not as bad as it could be.
Because it's actually hard to make a site.
Bad when it was once good, which we'll
talk about a whole bunch more later.
But we have a 1.3 second FCP,
a 1.6 second LCP,
0.26 community with layout shift,
and overall just really terrible.
And we're gonna spend some time improving
these numbers here in a minute.